We have considered the second part of
our lecture, we have considered growth
strategies with you, and now we
are moving to the third part of our
lecture, namely competitive strategies.
Dear colleagues, I wanted to remind
you that today we are considering
business strategies that are divided
into three sub-types.
These are portfolio strategies, growth
strategies and competitive strategies.
We have already considered two sub-specifics,
these are portfolio strategies,
this is also what we have
considered with you growth strategies.
I want to remind you that we talked
about integration, we talked
about diversification, we talked
about getting leadership at the
expense of either cost or differentiation
and specialization.
Now we go to the competitive
strategies.
Competitive strategies,
in fact, determine how the
enterprise will provide competitive
advantage in the market in
terms of the high attraction
of potential consumers, and
what policy the company should
choose to compete
with its competitors.
Competitive strategies, when we talk
about them, we can’t fail to
mention competitive advantages.
We have already talked to you about gaining
competitive advantage, speaking about
specialization strategies, differentiation
strategies, and getting and
reducing costs, but, nevertheless,
this is necessary in this
block of strategy.
What is a competitive advantage?
These are the characteristics of
the company’s market activity, which
create a certain superiority over its
competitors and allow you to obtain
the desired profit and maintain
strong positions in the market.
According to Porter’s general
competitive matrix, competitive
advantage can be achieved
through either product
leadership, price leadership,
or niche leadership.
As for product leadership,
we have already said that it can
be achieved in various
ways, either by reducing
costs, or by achieving a
differential advantage,
or by some kind of concentration.
Price leadership is most likely
to reduce costs, and niche
leadership is to concentrate
activity.
In this case, we are talking about
the growth strategies we have just
considered and the competitive
strategies, they are interrelated,
and one strategy flows
into another.
In this case, it is very difficult
to divide between competitive
strategies and growth strategies,
because as a company develops
and grows, it is already
trying to a competitive
advantage.
The Porter's general competitive matrix
is presented as follows.
How can we a competitive advantage?
The cost reduction we talked
about, the differential
advantage we talked about,
is price leadership, product
leadership, and niche leadership.
We will talk to you about each of the types
of leadership.
Product leadership, I said,
is achieved through differentiation,
through product
improvement, packaging,
design, and so on.
Price leadership is a game of prices,
it is a cost reduction, it is a standardization
of quality, it is a cost
management.
In this case, I would like to
point out that the use of the law of
experience and the law of scale in
this case should be used by companies.
Well, also leadership in a niche
is focusing on certain
niches.
A niche is a segment that has not
yet been identified and
needs that have not yet been met.
Well, for example, the segment is,
for example, shampoos for oily hair,
and the niche is a shampoo for
hair loss for oily hair.
That is, it is the satisfaction
of some specific
needs that have not yet been met.
Once they are satisfied, identified,
satisfied, the niche grows
into a segment.
Well, we have to say that leadership
in the niche is most often used
by small business enterprises because
of the fact that large companies sometimes
have a difficult time segmenting them
so, so, and carefully
segmenting their consumers.
And they, even by carrying out
a very detailed way, by careful
segmentation, many large companies
do not choose these segments as
their target markets.
Especially the niche.
And small companies, just realizing
their competitive advantage,
choose either niches or small
segments as their target
segments.
That is, those segments that they
pay close attention to and
with which they work.
Possible strategies for achieving
andining a competitive advantage
are presented in the competitive
advantage matrix, and we will
present them in the table
you will now see, the competitive
advantage matrix.
The table, as you can see, consists of
three main charts, which are market
positions, forward strategies and
passive strategies.
In the market position, companies can
occupy three main positions.
These are companies that are
leaders, companies that are pursuers
of market leaders and companies that avoid
direct competition.
And, as Kotler says, the type
of strategy chosen depends on the
position and market share that
the company occupies.
I have to say that the company
leader will be a large
large company that occupies
a leading position, which
aggressively conducts its
marketing strategies and
which select target segments,
large such target segments,
and works with them.
I have to say that we will be more
interested in this lecture two other
types - companies-
followers or pursuers of
market leaders and companies
that avoid direct competition.
The companies-pursuiters or market
leaders are those companies that
understand that they cannot become market
leaders, but they use strategies
similar to either the companies-leaders
of the market, or simply attack,
as you see, the attack, breakthrough,
or surroundings.
And companies that avoid direct
competition are most likely either
medium or even small companies,
who understand that they, due
to their size, cannot compete
with a large large company,
with a leader.
And they choose such a strategy
to avoid competition and find
their some lower segments
and work with them.
I have to say that market pursuers
are companies that most often
do not occupy dominant positions,
but can challenge such
a leader.
And those who avoid are companies
that agree with their position in
the market.
Well, if we look at this table,
we will see that there are two
types of strategies here.
We see pre-emptive strategies and
passive strategies.
Preventive strategies are
those strategies that companies
use to protect themselves,
to bite a leader, so
to speak.
And passive strategies are
those strategies that involve
simply following the leader,
when small companies just go
in general and use their position
and just do not change any,
without making any sharp
moves, just follow the courses.
So, we see that companies
pursuing market leaders use such
preventive strategies as attack,
breakthrough and surrounding.
Passive strategy
as a course.
And companies that avoid direct
competition use such preventive
strategies as coexistence
on site or bypass.
A passive strategy is to maintain positions.
We will look at these strategies on the example
of a sustainable strategy for small and medium-
sized enterprises.
So we move to the last section of our
lecture and talk about sustainable strategy
for small and medium-sized
companies.
First, let’s define small and medium-
sized companies.
What are these companies?
These are companies that have small
market shares or medium market
shares.
They either cannot or do not even
seek to take a leadership position.
These are companies that either
operate in local markets, or in national
markets, or in general in some
narrow geographical markets
and do not seek to go
out and expand their positions.
But that doesn’t mean that these
companies have no weight or
take no positions.
Absolutely not.
They can compete even with leaders
by providing some advantages,
competitors at the
expense of their specialization.
Let’s look at some strategies that
small and medium-sized companies use.
There are two types of
pre-emptive strategies
and passive strategies.
The company’s preventive strategies
that are the pursuit of a leader are
either a frontal attack or
a frontal attack.
It is that the company uses
against the competitor
the same means that the leader
uses and tries to detect
the weaknesses.
And in order to be successful,
this frontal attack requires
considerable superiority.
Therefore, in order to
superiority over a leader,
a certain ratio is necessary.
Usually it’s three to one
to represent a competitive advantage.
To be honest, a small head attack
is a rather risky strategy
because companies may not
be able to calculate
their capabilities.
And if they do not have
this superiority, price
superiority, product price
superiority, or distribution
superiority and the ratio of
3.1 is restored, they may not
their goals and not be able to
somehow beat the leader.
I have to say that many small
companies have tried to attack
leaders, but they have failed.
However, there are also examples
of successful use of this
strategy.
For example, IBM, which was at
its initial stage, began an
attack on the computer market,
it was in the 1980s and 1990s,
and began to release its
personal computers, such as
competitors Apple, Commodore,
Tandy and the like.
However, she was able to become
the leader only in two years.
I have to say that this company
even at that time was already a medium-
sized company, so if we talk about
medium-sized and small companies,
then they are unlikely
to use this strategy.
It really requires a lot of
money, and companies then have
to use a very strong
leadership strategy by cutting
costs, but that won’t always
lead to quality improvement.
Therefore, it is very problematic
here, because the company
will either reduce quality and
reduce price by reducing costs,
but it may not this product
leadership.
The next strategy is a breakthrough
or flank attack.
It involves using any of
the leader’s weaknesses and finding
a gap.
It can, for example, be
targeted at any region or care
network where a dominant
firm is not as well represented
as that segment as another
company, or it is the segment
for which this product of
that leader is not very adapted.
The classic strategy is to challenge,
challenge through the price, in other
words, to lower the price.
Again, here is a strategy
of reducing the improvement
of leadership by reducing costs.
I have to say that this
strategy was used by breakthrough
or flank attack, used by
many Japanese companies
that entered the American
car market.
Again, we can say that these companies
were no longer small, they
were large enough companies.
What did they do?
They went on the market with a
base model, if you remember, we
once talked about the Antsov matrix.
That is, they were already existing
goods on the new market, and
they came out because they reduced
the price of their base models.
In relation to American
cars, they occupied
a leading position, because,
first, they were more
economical cars, second,
they had better quality,
and third, they were
sold at a lower price
compared to American cars.
And, fourth, the Japanese developed
their dealers’ networks very well,
so this allowed the company to
attack frontally.
However, this strategy is not very
applicable to medium and small
companies.
Third, strategy is the environment, the
gradual accumulation of advantages over
the leader by studying his weaknesses,
bypassing the competitor from different
sides.
This strategy is
used widely by companies
that are medium-
sized or small.
Here is a good example – the Matreška
restaurant chain, and the leader of
the direct competitor – the Yelki-
Palk restaurant chain.
It must be said that the chain of restaurants
"Elkie-Palk" appeared earlier than
"Matreschka", and
its competitive advantage was that
the chain of fairly inexpensive
restaurants was called tractors,
which represented quite high-
quality home food at not
so high prices.
One of the competitors was the
Swedish table.
But the company "Matrixka", which came
out in the market in 96-97 years,
gradually began to accumulate
advantages over the leader.
What did they do?
First, they used the same
strategy, they followed
the leader, but unlike the
Yelky-Palk restaurants,
where only the approach to the
Swedish table was practiced, they
began to practice an unlimited
approach to the Swedish table,
and also expanded the
range of dishes on the Swedish
table.
For almost the same price, a
person could have lunch, and
he could also approach the
Swedish table as often as
possible.
Therefore, this company Matreška used
the surrounding and gradually
began to replace all these restaurants
"Elk-Palk".
And we can say that we can see even
such a local example, such as
this restaurant, the Matreška restaurant
chain has superseded the Yelki-
Palki restaurants.
Metro Tretyakovskaya, there are
now these two restaurants, and when
Matreška, the Matreškaya
restaurant network, began
to go aggressively enough to market,
the restaurant Yelki-Palki was
forced to close and transfer
it to cooking.
Thus, it turned out that the
company “Matrixka” gradually
surrounded the competitor and used
his weaknesses and advantages
in its direction.
The following strategies are
strategies for concentrating forces
in profitable areas.
This is a selection of market segments
where attracting the attention of
stronger competitors.
This strategy is used
by small companies.
And the next strategy, which is
very similar to the previous ones
- is bypassing, avoiding competition
by releasing non-competitive goods,
using services that are
unattractive to competitors sales
channels and more.
Examples of these strategies are,
for example, construction markets
such as the Kashir Court, Strugino
and many others, which sell
goods similar to those sold
in ABI, Laura-Ameren
and others.
But at less high prices, that is, at
lower prices, they do not compete
with them, because, for example,
the Strictly market is adjacent
to Lora-Amherlen and is rather
peacefully adjacent.
Everyone leaves their activities.
Why this happens?
Because the company Strong
Market, which consists of
many-many sellers, sells goods,
of course, they use completely
different sales channels, they
do not provide such services
as the large stores ABI
and Lorra-Amérén, they do not use unattractive
enough sales channels,
sales points are also quite
unattractive, but they
have their consumers who
are willing to accept such
inconvenience, but buy goods,
building materials
and the like, at lower
prices.
We have discussed strategies that
can be attributed to the
pre-emptive, and now we will look
at passive strategies with you.
Passive strategies are those strategies
that involve adaptive behavior, that
is, companies decide to coordinate
their actions, focusing on the leader,
they continue to go along the current,
they do not go against the current,
they coexist peacefully with the
leader, because they understand
that they will not be able
to compete with him.
And, of course, passive strategies
are more typical of small
business companies, even, not medium,
but small business.
If the preemptive strategies can be attributed
to the latch strategy of the medium-sized
business, then the passive strategies
are mainly used by the small business
company.
And we must say
that such behavior
can be used in situations
of oligopoly or just
when companies understand
that they are just
profitable to
fight with
the leader but we
must say that this
behavior is this consistency
and world-existence
with the leader in
general does not mean
that companies
can not have any
competitive strategy
in contrast to the
very first part of
the lecture, there
are small companies
and small share ownership
it is enhancing
the importance
of such strategic
points as differentiation
and giving their
consumers competitive
advantages well
and we must
say that these companies
with a small share
they will not necessarily
be dead load
or there dogs
we talked about
in the first part
of the lecture
they are just
looking for attention
between the development
and if they build
them to include
the Boston consulting
matrix there
they have
their strategic
signs to
increase
their interests
only their
stars and
their
dogs need
that
they
And they will strive for specialization
and will not even try to
increase their market share.
Well, of course, strong leadership,
the influence of the manager is very
important, because the strategy
is formed, the overall strategy
is formed by the strategy, and,
of course, the management of the
company must report to itself
where it wants to lead its company.
All these parameters
are applied by many companies
that work in the service
sector.
For example, it is a restaurant
business, it is small hotels,
it is companies that are engaged
in the sale of some food,
small companies, small shops,
sewing clothes and the like.
They all really survive through
these aspects.
Passive strategy studies behind the
leader, thus they do not imply
passive behavior, but rather
the care of the management
about choosing the strategy.
That is, in this case, the management
understands the place of the company
and they just develop their
strategy and go systematically, without
crossing the path to the leader,
because if they cross the path
to the leader, they will immediately
be destroyed.
We will look at several strategies that
are quite typical for small and medium-sized
companies.
The first is to follow the course.
That is, a company that chooses
this passive strategy by following
the course, it is based
on the fact that it will minimize
the risk of the leader’s response,
that is, in the pricing
policy.
In other words, the company will
not cross with the leader in
price policy.
They will provide some services
or goods at a lower price.
By the way, the quality of the services
or goods provided may not be worse
than the leader, but it will not
cross with the leader in this
position.
For example, small car repair
companies.
We still have many of these
companies, car drivers know,
car service providers who prefer
not to compete with official
authorized car repair dealers,
but represent a very
wide range of services.
And, of course, there will
be fragmented activities, and narrow
specialization, and a fairly individual
approach to the client.
Well, for example, I can say
that many people who have
good enough cars, however, prefer not
to turn to authorized dealers,
who have quite high prices,
and sometimes, if it is not large
enough repair, prefer to turn
to their, so to speak,
already well-known masters
in small car service, because
they know that they will
quality service and repair
their car.
And, by the way, in this case, the
law of experience will work very well here.
The next strategy is a strategy
of preserving positions.
This strategy, a passive
strategy, aims to maintain a consistency
in market activity that does
not attract the attention
of competitors.
Well, if we look at the previous
strategy, we will see that they
are very similar.
Here in this case, if the prior
strategy emphasizes that the company
minimizes the risk of response actions,
mainly price policy, then
here the company simplyins consistency
in market activity and also that
this strategy will
be dropped from the previous
one, does not cause the attention
of competitors.
What is it?
This is the activity
of small food and commercial
stores, shops-tent.
They are not at all looking
to compete with large and medium-
sized companies, not by range,
not by logistics of some complex,
but most often they survive because
of the fact that they are located
near the house, this is a
convenient location.
Offices or stations, say,
and attract consumers with
their price and low prices,
and freshness of products,
because very often this product
is presented very
daily.
We have looked at the main strategies,
passive strategies and preventive
strategies that small and medium-
sized companies enjoy.
But I have to say that besides this
classification, I am quite
interested in which represents
four main strategies.
We will consider if you look at
this table, we will consider
four main strategies.
The characteristics of a small company
and the form of existence of a small company.
Here, there are four parameters, regardless
of the large company, a small
company can exist or is associated
with a large company.
There are also two aspects
of the product.
It is a product that is similar
to a large company product, or it is
a shino original product.
We see four possibilities here.
A rather interesting strategy is
a false influenza strategy, when
a company is independent of a
large firm, but produces a product
similar to a large firm.
Next is a chameleon, a company
that produces products that are
similar to a large company’
s product and are associated with a
large company.
She uses her advantage.
And the other two strategies are a
straight-piscal strategy, when a
company produces an aggregate
product and independently of a large
firm, thereby abstracting and
trying to float along the current.
The last strategy is a
roaring bee.
The company produces an original product,
but it is related to a large company,
that is, a strategy of participation in
the production of products.
We will now look at these strategies
in more detail.
The strategy of the false flu is small
firms that survive in the market,
producing so-called counterfeits.
Sometimes it is legal, sometimes
it is illegal.
The company copies the products
of large companies and uses the
me to product strategy.
If the company uses this strategy
and registers its products,
and registers under a different
trademark than the product
leader, then this is in
this case quite a completely
legal activity, and
so do many companies.
If a company uses a me to product strategy,
in other words, it simply uses counterfeits
and uses the power and
power of the company’s leading
products, it is illegal.
Many Chinese goods use a false
flu strategy and are
quite illegal in the market.
We all know, for example, Big pen,
French pen, this BIC is written,
very many companies, unfortunately,
Chinese companies, share products
and write not BIC, but BIK,
BKA and the like, well, they
produce pen.
Of course, they also use
a strategy to benefits by
reducing costs and the like.
The fake flu strategy, however,
no matter how you can see, is to
flush out of other companies.
Well, we must say, if we talk about
legal such application of this strategy,
it can be applied only in those areas
where the main producers invest
a lot in NEOCR or Research and
Development and receive at least
15% of revenue in connection
with the presentation of information
on the public communication
channel of advertising.
Well, for example, in this case,
an example of not very legal
use of the name Adidas is given.
Adamas uses the product,
it capitalizes on the name Adidas
and can create such a small confusion
in the consumption mind,
so say, and people start simply
confusing the two names
and buy Adamas products.
Well, I would like to say that
this strategy is a false flu,
it is, if it is used legally,
it is used by companies, very
many companies, small companies.
They use, in general, they follow
the leader, they passively simply
take and use the advantage
of the leader’s company.
That is, they take and use all
the leadership and find their
consumer, because they sell
this product at a reduced
price.
If the company uses this strategy
illegally enough, it is already
an illegal business.
And I repeat that, unfortunately,
a lot of companies in the grey
market use this strategy.
The next strategy is the Primudra
and Piskar strategy.
If you remember, this strategy refers
to the fact that Primudre and
Piskar is a company that produces
an original product and independent
of a large firm.
When a company uses the
Primudra and Piskar strategy,
it produces a completely
original product that does not
interact with the leader.
I have to say that this strategy
can be somehow compared
to the strategies we have already
considered – following the
course orining positions.
That is,ining consistency that does not
attract the attention of competitors.
I must say that we see
family ties.
With this strategy, the scale
effect does not work.
If the company is doing repairs,
it is operating in a limited
market.
Repairing a clock
and so on.
Mostly small companies that follow
this strategy, they engage
in individual activities
or work with a very narrow
small segment or even some
niche.
The next strategy is a small
company that creates an original
product, but unlike the previous
strategy, its products are
linked to the products of a
large company.
This happens when a large company
simply gives some small part
of the work to a small company
because it simply doesn’t make
a profit from producing
the product.
For example, Toyota, which produces
machines, parts, axles, engines,
transmission, and gear parts, simply
does not make a profit from
producing related products such
as blankets or carpets and the like.
And she gives it to other companies.
In principle, such large companies
can form a vertical marketing
system, a managed
marketing system when an
tender is announced and small
companies are happy to fight
to work with a large company
under its auspices.
Sometimes it is just one-class
some contractual terms, when the
company simply performs
a certain activity of a large company,
and sometimes it grows into
the same long-term cooperation.
That is, a company can work under the
auspices of a large company,
at least having an independent
name, it can work in co-authorship under
the auspices of a large company.
The next strategy is the Camillion strategy.
The strategy is that a small company
creates a product similar to
a large company’s product
but connected to it through
franchising.
If we talked to you about the first
strategy, which is called a
false grapefruit, I will remind
you, I told you that in many
cases this strategy is
used by companies illegally,
then here in this case
the company uses completely
legal mechanisms.
A small company becomes a franchise.
In other words, it purchases
a license from the franchiser
and becomes part of the company.
Again, franchising is one
of the forms of vertical
markers, it is a contractual
so-called Navy, so it is
a very rapidly growing franchising
to new markets and, we
must say, it is really legal.
It must be said that now 40-60
percent of the US store’s output
operates on the franchise system.
In Russia, franchising
is developing very rapidly.
This happened because of the fact
that legislative documents
appeared, a legislative framework
appeared, which allowed companies
to promote their products
through franchising.
I will name you such companies, large
and small, that work on the basis of franchising,
but this is Kodak, this is McDonald's
, but not in Russia, this is the image of Persona's
lab, this is franchising, this is,
if you grow up, the company, this
is Diana's chemical cleaners, here
they work on franchising.
In other words, if you want to
open your business, you can buy
a license from a franchisee, become
a franchisee and undergo a training
course, you are equipped with
equipment, and you work under the
auspices of this brand, that is,
you are part of this company, but
thus you deduct a certain percentage
to the franchisee under
the contract.
This is very simple and, as I
have already said, a very
common model not only in the United
States, but also in Russia, except,
as I have already listed,
here are examples like Diana,
I also think of Coffee House,
which is also a franchise
of the company Sweet Mama,
which has already been mentioned.
There are many companies that
are currently working under the
auspices of franchising.
Thus, we have discussed the
strategies of medium and small companies,
and we have in this part of the lecture
focused on such strategies, which can
be called preventive strategies and
passive strategies, as well
as strategies that are related
to the characteristics of the
product and the form of the
existence of a small company.
A false fungus, a wise sandstone, a chameleon
and a bee’s sting.
Dear colleagues, our lecture is
coming to an end.
I think this material will be useful
to you.
Thank you again for your attention.
thanks to.
to Goodbye.